# J2IGF - Java 2D Interactive Graphics Framework

> As the name suggests, it is an interactive graphics framework built from scratch in Java. The goal of this project is
> to create a framework that has a wide range of options available. It provides pixel-level control as well as abstract
> functionalities to generate complex graphics, and lastly, it is capable of interpreting user input.

---

<b>This project is only meant for educational purposes, as it does not use hardware-accelerated rendering, and in the
present day there is no practical application of software rendering. It may still be useful for creating quick
visualisations as well as some low-fidelity interactive applications. Lastly, it can help develop an understanding
of how graphics are rendered under the hood, as the fundamentals always remain the same.</b>

---

J2IGF will allow you to explore the world of computer graphics! In this section, we will get to know the fundamentals of
computer graphics within the context of Java 2D Interactive Graphics Framework. This framework is specifically designed
to be verbose with its functionality and allow people to understand the working principles of similar graphics
frameworks. This is purely for educational purposes and focuses on 2D graphics, providing a platform for learning and
experimenting with various aspects of computer graphics.

## What is Computer Graphics?

Computer graphics refers to the creation, manipulation, and representation of visual content using computers. It
encompasses a wide range of applications, including video games, animations, simulations, user interfaces, and more.
Computer graphics enables us to bring our ideas to life by generating and rendering digital images and visual effects.

## Core concepts explored in this framework :-

There are several core concepts that are essential to understand the working of J2IGF. Let's explore some of these key
topics:

### Coordinate Systems

A coordinate system defines how we represent positions in a 2D space. In our framework, we typically use a Cartesian
coordinate system, where points are located using X and Y coordinates. The origin (0, 0) is usually in the top-left
corner of the screen or window, with positive X values extending towards the right and positive Y values extending
downward.

### Primitives

Primitives are fundamental geometric shapes used to construct more complex 2D objects. Our framework supports basic
primitives such as points, lines, rectangles, circles, triangles, and text. By combining and manipulating these
primitives, you can create more intricate and visually appealing graphics. Along with these primitives, J2IGF also
supports sprites and animations, which can be used to create more complex graphics.

### Transformations

Transformations allow you to modify the position, size, rotation, and scaling of objects within the 2D space. Common
transformations include translation (shifting an object's position), rotation (rotating an object around a specified
point), and scaling (changing an object's size). These transformations provide the foundation for animating and
manipulating objects in your 2D graphics.

### Color and Transparency

Color and transparency play a crucial role in enhancing the visual appeal of your 2D graphics. J2IGF provides the
ability to set colors and adjust transparency levels, to fill and stroke shapes. By utilizing different colors and
transparency settings, you can create visually stunning compositions with varying degree of fidelity.

### Rendering and Interaction

Rendering involves the process of converting the internal representation of 2D objects into a visual output on the
screen. In J2IGF, you have maximum controle over the process of rendering. Additionally, the framework provides
interaction capabilities, allowing you to capture user input, such as mouse clicks and keyboard events, to create
interactive experiences.

## Conclusion

In this section, we explored the fundamentals of computer graphics within the context of our Java 2D Interactive
Graphics Framework. We discussed key concepts like coordinate systems, primitives, transformations, color and
transparency, as well as rendering and interaction. By understanding these core topics, you are ready to dive into the
world of 2D graphics and leverage our educational framework to create visually appealing and interactive experiences and
learn more about the algorithms and architecture that powers the frameworks used for graphics.

---

> ### *API Documentation is included with the source code. It was automatically generated using Javadoc.*

